---
layout: post
title: "Dao"
date: 2016-03-02
tags: [large, elemental, cr11]
---

**Large elemental, neutral evil**

**Armor Class** 18 (natural armor)

**Hit Points** 187 (15d10 + 105)

**Speed** 30 ft., burrow 30 ft., fly 30 ft.

|   STR   |   DEX   |   CON   |   INT   |   WIS   |   CHA   |
|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|
| 23 (+6) | 12 (+1) | 24 (+7) | 12 (+1) | 13 (+1) | 14 (+2) |

**Saving Throws** Int +5, Wis +5, Cha +6

**Condition Immunities** petrified

**Senses** darkvision 120 ft., passive Perception 11

**Languages** Terran

**Challenge** 11 (7,200 XP)

***Earth Glide.*** The dao can burrow through nonmagical, unworked earth and stone. While doing so, the dao doesn’t
disturb the material it moves through.

***Elemental Demise.*** If the dao dies, its body disintegrates into crystalline powder, leaving behind only equipment the dao was wearing or carrying.

***Innate Spellcasting.*** The dao’s innate spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 14, +6 to hit with spell attacks). It can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components:
At will: detect evil and good, detect magic, stone shape
3/day each: passwall, move earth, tongues
1/day each: conjure elemental (earth elemental only), gaseous form, invisibility, phantasmal killer, plane shift, wall of stone

***Sure-Footed.*** The dao has advantage on Strength and Dexterity saving throws made against effects that would knock it prone.

**Actions**

***Multiattack.*** The dao makes two fist attacks or two maul attacks.

***Fist.*** Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 15 (2d8 + 6) bludgeoning damage.

***Maul.*** Melee Weapon Attack: +10 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 20 (4d6 + 6) bludgeoning damage. If the target is a Huge or smaller creature, it must succeed on a DC 18 Strength check or be knocked prone.
