---
layout: post
title: "Nycaloth"
date: 2016-03-02
tags: [large, fiend, cr9]
---

**Large fiend (yugoloth), neutral evil**

**Armor Class** 18 (natural armor)

**Hit Points** 123 (13d10 + 52)

**Speed** 40 ft., fly 60 ft.

|   STR   |   DEX   |   CON   |   INT   |   WIS   |   CHA   |
|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|:-----:|
| 20 (+5) | 11 (+0) | 19 (+4) | 12 (+1) | 10 (+0) | 15 (+2) |

**Skills** Intimidation +6, Perception +4, Stealth +4

**Damage Resistances** cold, fire, lightning; bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing from nonmagical weapons

**Damage Immunities** acid, poison

**Condition Immunities** poisoned

**Senses** blindsight 60 ft., darkvision 60 ft., passive Perception 14

**Languages** Abyssal, Infernal, telepathy 60 ft.

**Challenge** 9 (5,000 XP)

***Innate Spellcasting.*** The nycaloth’s innate spellcasting ability is Charisma. The nycaloth can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components:
At will: darkness, detect magic, dispel magic, invisibility (self only), mirror image

***Magic Resistance.*** The nycaloth has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects.

***Magic Weapons.*** The nycaloth’s weapon attacks are magical.

**Actions**

***Multiattack.*** The nycaloth makes two melee attacks, or it makes one melee attack and teleports before or after the
attack.

***Claw.*** Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 12 (2d6 + 5) slashing damage. If the target is a creature, it must succeed on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw or take 5 (2d4) slashing damage at the start of each of its turns due to a fiendish wound. Each time the nycaloth hits the wounded target with this attack, the damage dealt by the wound increases by 5 (2d4). Any creature can take an action to stanch the wound with a successful DC 13 Wisdom (Medicine) check. The wound also closes if the target receives magical healing.

***Greataxe.*** Melee Weapon Attack: +9 to hit, reach 5 ft., one target. Hit: 18 (2d12 + 5) slashing damage.

***Teleport.*** The nycaloth magically teleports, along with any equipment it is wearing or carrying, up to 60 feet to an unoccupied space it can see.
